


The Bottom Line

In the great cable vs. streaming debate, we side with streaming. While cable TV has more channels, fewer fussy apps, and discounts with bundling services, it also comes with contracts, red tape, and so many commercials. 

Streaming, on the other hand, is more flexible and contract-free. However, with price hikes in streaming over the last few years and dozens of new apps appearing, the two are becoming increasingly similar.



Cable TV: The Pros & Cons

Cable TV is a classic for a reason. From your favorite sports to keeping up with the local news, there's a reason it's still around in the age of streaming. But before you sign up for a new cable subscription, consider a few pros and cons of adding cable to your list of utility bills.


Cable TV Pros

More channels

Cable TV has a few advantages over streaming, namely selection. Packages from Xfinity, for example, deliver over 180 channels, including sports, news, and local networks, to keep you up to date. And depending on your cable package, you can opt for special packages that focus on what you're interested in.

Bundle and save

Many of the same brands that offer cable also provide internet and phone service. The more you opt-in from that same company, the better deal you'll get. While there are some promotions like that through streaming (think Hulu and Disney+), they aren't as common as cable.

No buffering or fussy apps

When you sit down to watch TV with a streaming service, there's always the looming threat of the dreaded buffering wheel interrupting your TV time. Streaming services also require unique log-ins and have different interfaces that can vary just enough to leave you confused. 

Cable, on the other hand, simplifies selection with "Information" options, allowing you to keep watching while surfing through channel choices.


Cable TV Cons

Paying for channels you don't watch

Getting a premium cable package is like ordering 200 pizzas for one family. Even if every member of your family is an avid TV viewer, the amount of channels you get will still go to waste. 

Cable prices tend to vary widely depending on the provider and package. We found rates as low as $20/mo. from Xfinity all the way to $150/mo. from Cox. With those more expensive packages, you may get over 300 channels but only watch a few. 

Cable costs span a wide range with monthly prices starting as low as $20/mo. all the way to premium packages landing around $150/mo. 

On the other hand, virtual cable providers like YouTube and Hulu cost around $70 to $80/mo. and don't require contracts or installation.

Contracts and fine print

Cable service usually comes with a year-long contract that locks you in with a hodgepodge of potential hidden fees. Clauses for activation fees, late fees, equipment fees, and disconnection fees may be hiding within the fine print of your agreement when you sign on. 

In addition, it's a common practice among cable providers to raise your typical monthly fee after your first or second year of service.

Too many commercials

While this can be a problem for streamers, too, cable is notorious for constant commercial breaks in programming. Whether it's a prime-time sitcom, sportscast, or local news, there aren't any ad-free options with cable like the ones streaming services have. 

Granted, avoiding commercials in streaming costs extra, and even some ad-free services play pre-roll ads for their own programs, but there's no "skip" button with cable.



Streaming TV: The Pros & Cons

Streaming services like Netflix, Hulu, Amazon, Prime, Max, and dozens of others have become the new standard for TV and movie lovers. The best streaming services offer tiered subscriptions with or without ads and contracts. 


Streaming TV Pros

Everything's on-demand

Sure, DVR is helpful, but streaming is on-demand by default. With thousands of movies and TV shows on just a single streaming service, you can rewatch favorites, binge a whole season in one sitting, and revisit retro picks with the kids. 

Streaming also lets you play back clips, pause, and skip episodes, a feature you don't get with traditional cable unless you have a DVR option. 

Lower monthly cost (even without ads)

Like cable services, streaming services have multiple tiers of service, but prices tend to land below $25/month for even most premium plans. And like cable, you have tons of options for stuff to watch but you only need to pay for the services you use. 

Its lack of contracts and fine print makes streaming easier to cancel and sign up for if you want to hop between services and only pay for one at a time. We collected a few premium, non-live TV options from popular streaming services. 

Added up, they land around $90/per month, making it comparable to most cable services. 

Specialty streaming services

Cable offers bundles for special interests like sports, but there are entire streaming services dedicated to niche viewing. Beyond the popular choices like Netflix and Hulu, you can find services with shows around special interests. 

If you like classic and indie movies, try AMC. 
If you like British cinema and TV, try BritBox. 
If you like anime, try Crunchyroll. 
If you like horror and thrillers, try Shudder. 
The list goes on and on. 

And if there's a show or movie you want to see, many of these offer a free week-long trial, allowing you to sign up then cancel after you've seen what you've been craving.


Streaming TV Cons

Tied to your internet connection

Streaming services need a Wi-Fi connection to work, so if you have a slow or weak network, you may be stuck watching a spinning wheel instead of your favorite show. Weak internet can affect picture quality and even with strong internet,  live TV streaming is limited to 720p (not far from security camera footage).

Watch new releases later

Services like Hulu offer prime-time shows like Abbott Elementary and The Bachelorette, but you have to wait 24 hours after the show airs to watch it. Want to see the latest Pixar movie from home? You'll have to wait a few months to see it on Disney+.

Multiple services add up fast

While it's easier to pay a lower bill every month for streaming services, signing up for all these platforms can add up fast. The list we provided above totaled around $90/month, but that's just a taste of what's out there. And with all those individual bills and logins, it can be tough to keep track of what you have available.

and even then...

There's no escape from decision paralysis

The grass is always greener, right? With cable, you may flip through 200 channels and find that nothing's on. The situation is similar for streaming. With thousands of movies and shows on a single platform, it's easy to just endlessly scroll through your choices without picking anything to watch. (Only to land on something you've seen a dozen times…not that we'd know.)



More TV options to consider

Live streaming TV

Several streaming services offer premium packages similar to cable, making it the best of both worlds. Hulu Live TV, YouTube TV, and Peacock Premium Plus, just to name a few, offer live sports, events, and local news without all the red tape that comes with cable. 

That said, these services cost significantly more than standard streaming from their other plans. For example, Hulu charges $81.99/month for live TV, Disney+, and ESPN in one premium package versus $17.99/month for ad-free basic streaming. 

Satellite TV

Satellite TV also delivers tons of channels and works with DVR, but often comes with a higher monthly fee and can fail in poor weather. We break down the details more in our guide to cable vs. satellite TV. 


Cable or Streaming, Which Should You Choose?

Overall, streaming offers a better watching experience with more choices for less money. We like that you can watch programs on repeat from multiple devices and discover new favorites from niche services. 

But if you can't miss your favorite sports or live news, cable has an edge on streaming. You just need to be mindful of the package you choose and the hidden fees that may come with your service. 